Web platform
The platform has five different types of users:
accounting, statistics, auxiliary, packer, and administrator.
The accounting user has access to the catalog of banks,
bank accounts, fees, packers, regimes, and types of contribution.
However, the main catalog is that of packers,
as many processes of the platform depend on it.
Once a pack is registered, its user is automatically registered,
and an automated email is sent to activate it.
Additionally, when a pack is registered,
its balance is set to zero and updated as
invoices and payments are registered.
From the packers catalog query, it's possible to search for a
specific pack or classify it based on its location, among other things.
All catalogs, as well as all reports and all platform information,
can be downloaded as CSV files that can be opened in Excel,
allowing the information to continue to be
processed by association employees.
Finally, the modification form of the packers'
catalog allows updating their data,
except for the RFC and SADER registration.
The main purpose of the platform for the accounting user is
to maintain internal control of the association's income.
To streamline the registration of an invoice in the platform, it is necessary
to select the XML and PDF files already generated for the invoice.
This way, the platform automatically obtains the data, records it,
uploads the selected files to the server, and
sends them to the corresponding packer.
In the query table, there are three buttons:
the first two open the files uploaded to the server,
and the last button, on the right, indicates whether
the automatic email was sent correctly.
A green color indicates it wasn't sent, while black indicates it was.
Similarly, it is possible to resend it with this button.
Finally, the platform also records the cancellation of invoices.
First, the specific folio is searched,
and then the justification is entered.
The platform automatically obtains the
date and records the cancellation.
Invoices increase the balance of the packers,
while payments decrease it.
To register a payment, a packer is selected,
and the platform displays its pending invoices.
Then, the corresponding XML file to one
of these pending invoices is selected,
and the platform automatically retrieves
the data just like with the invoices.
The platform also selects the association's bank
account where the packer deposits the money.
This way, it records the account already registered in
the catalog of packers from which the payment was made
and the account it was deposited into.
Similar to the invoice query table, the payment table
allows for the review of files uploaded to the server
and the resending of automatic emails for each record.
Below is an example of the automated emails sent by the platform.
In these emails, you can see a message with
the invoice folio in the case of invoices,
along with the corresponding month for the contribution
and the PDF and XML files uploaded to the server.
On the other hand, for the payment emails, the PDD number and the
uploaded files are also included.
Below are the income reports. The first one is the general income report,
which gathers all invoices and payments within a specified period.
Invoices represent charges, and payments represent credits.
Consequently, a detailed report of the total
charges and credits is obtained.
This report can be generated for each individual
packer or overall for all of them.
Additionally, it can be exported to a PDF file with the information displayed
in the query table and automatically sent to the selected packer.
On the other hand, the income summary report uses
the same algorithm as the previous report
but queries monthly and only displays the totals for each packer.
It's also possible to query by types of contributions or for all
registered invoices and payments, generating a PDF report.
Finally, there's the account statement report, which compiles
all invoice records per packer or all packers,
each representing a monthly contribution.
These reports compare exported kilograms, contributions automatically
calculated by the platform, and invoice amounts.
It's possible to generate the report in PDF
format and automatically send it via email.
The automatic email includes personalized report
data based on the selected parameters.
To conclude, the contributions report conducts a monthly query of
exported kilograms per packer and calculates the monthly contributions
by multiplying these kilograms by the registered fee for
that month, which in some cases may be more than one.
Finally, the invoice number corresponding to each contribution is displayed,
in the case of those that have already been invoiced, so
that the user can identify those that are still pending.
This query can be filtered by packers that do invoice to
identify outstanding contributions or by all packers.
On the other hand, the statistician user has access to
the catalogs of fees, packers, states, municipalities,
officials, countries, entry ports, third parties,
third-party specialists, and transports.
These catalogs are necessary to validate registration
and certificate replacement forms.
They also validate that the selected date is within the corresponding
season, which begins in June and ends in May of the following year.
The main objective of these and many more validations is to ensure
that there are no errors in the registration of certificates,
as these are the main source of information for the platform.
They are used to calculate monthly contributions
and generate all statistics.
Now, the current form is the certificate cancellation
form. To cancel a certificate,
first, a search is made based on its CFI
folio, and a justification is recorded.
On the other hand, certificate replacement works similarly.
A search is conducted, the data is obtained,
and the platform allows registering a new one based on this information
without having to fill out the complete form again.
This way, only the fields with errors or differences are modified,
and the justification for canceling the
certificate to be replaced is recorded.
A certificate that is canceled is no longer valid
and is not considered by the association,
however, a certificate with an original
status or replacement status is.
Now, the query is displayed here. With this,
it's possible to filter the data by status, time
period, type of export, among other things.
Like the catalogs, it can be exported in CSV files.
To achieve this result, a Bootstrap library
was implemented to use a dynamic table.
This table indicates how many records are being displayed and
how many records there are in total, among other things.
For this user, it's also possible to access the contribution report,
but as we've seen before, I won't explain here what we're seeing.
This is the report of historical statistics, which presents
two types of charts: a bar chart and a line chart.
It's possible to consult any year within the historical data of the
association and download an automatic report in PDF format.
This report displays statistics in the form of charts and
the data for each month and year in a table format.
Additionally, there are monthly statistics that
show the overall exports by destination.
These are presented in bar charts and pie charts. Furthermore,
the vessels registered in that month are also displayed.
In this case, what we are currently viewing on
the screen are the statistics by packer,
which are exactly the same as the previous statistics,
with the only difference being that here the
data of a specific packer are displayed.
Similarly to the previous example, the PDF report presents
tables with the data for each destination.
Lastly, there are the statistics by season, which compare two seasons.
These are presented in individual charts, one for
each season, and include two comparative charts:
one bar chart and one line chart. Any season can be
chosen, but the default is to load the last two.
In the PDF report, in addition to the exports for each month, the
exports for each month by destination for each season are shown.
This concludes the functionality for the statistics user.
On this screen, the menu for the auxiliary statistician user is presented.
It contains some of the catalogs available to the statistician user type,
as well as access to certificates, whether for
registration, cancellation, or replacement.
However, the auxiliary statistician user type only supports certificate
capture and doesn’t have access to contributions or statistical inquiries.
The user of type packer doesn’t have administrative permissions
but can consult the association's statistics.
The difference lies in the monthly statistics per packer.
The packer user can’t choose which packer to consult,
as this data is confidential among the packers. Therefore,
the user can only view their own statistics.
Additionally, the system help is displayed, accessible
to all users and personalized for each one.
Clicking on any of the accordions brings up a screen with each step,
warnings, and recommendations for the corresponding form.
Finally, there is the user of type administrator, who has access to all
areas of the system and can register users who will be using it.
This screen displays the user registration form, which,
like the packers' catalog registration form,
sends an automated email to activate the account. The administrator
user also has some controls to manage the system,
such as error logging, backup, and database restoration.
Now, I'm showing the process to reset a user's password.
First, the user's email address is entered,
and then the platform sends an automated
email containing the activation link.
This link includes two pieces of information: the user's ID and a token,
which is an activation code that validates the password change.
This screen displays the form responsible
for verifying if the link is valid.
In this case, an expired link is shown, which is
no longer valid for changing the password.
Mobile App
The users who have access to this application are: the administrator
user, who can access the statistics and the agenda;
the accounting user who can access the agenda, and
the executive user who can view the statistics.
This is the main screen of the mobile application.
Here, the login process takes place, and it verifies that
the user has the necessary permissions to access.
It's important to note that users of types statistician,
assistant, and packer do not have access.
All this process is carried out on the server, and the queries are
constantly updated once the user logs into the application.
Here I'm showing the main menu, the agenda menu, and the statistics menu.
The administrator has access to all functions available in the
application, and the home button redirects to the main menu.
Regarding user permissions, the accounting
user has access to the agenda menu.
This menu includes all packers and displays
the data registered in the packers catalog in the
web application, which is consulted in real-time.
Additionally, it shows the balances, which are updated
each time invoices and payments are registered.
The catalog of suppliers registered in the database is also included.
It's important to mention that this catalog doesn’t belong to my project,
but it has been included to meet the needs of the accounting user.
Also, there's the executive user, who has access to the statistics.
These include general statistics and statistics per packer.
The general statistics display historical data using
the same algorithm as presented in the web platform.
Additionally, here I'm showing how, when rotating the
phone horizontally, the query parameters are retained.
It's important to remember that in Android, activities
are restarted each time the orientation changes.
Now, the monthly statistics are presented, obtained
in the same way as those on the web platform.
These statistics display exports by destination.
When rotating the phone horizontally, the menu at
the top is hidden to view the graphs comfortably.
The library used to generate them allows interactive zooming.
Additionally, in horizontal mode, queries can also be performed.
Now, the statistics per packer use exactly the
same algorithm as the previous statistics,
with the only difference being that here you can select a specific packer.
In fact, historical statistics per packer are exclusive to the mobile
application, as they are not available on the web platform.
Finally, there are monthly statistics per packer,
which are available on the web platform.
To close the application, simply click on the exit button.
It also closes automatically when it goes into the background.